Rewrite article that describes how to implement federated authentication between SPS and AD FS (#2349)
MicrosoftDocs/OfficeDocs-SharePoint: SharePoint/SharePointServer/security-for-sharepoint-server/implement-saml-based-authentication-in-sharepoint-server.md

- IT_Sharepoint_Server
- IT_Sharepoint_Server_Top
ms.assetid: 
description: "Implement federated authentication in SharePoint Server."
---

# Implement federated authentication
[!INCLUDE[appliesto-2013-2016-2019-xxx-md](../includes/appliesto-2013-2016-2019-xxx-md.md)]  

## Implement federated authentication in SharePoint Server

This step-by-step guide explains how to configure federated authentication in SharePoint with Active Directory Federation Services (AD FS).

## Overview of federated authentication

In federated authentication, SharePoint processes SAML tokens issued by a trusted, external Security Token Service (STS). A user who attempts to log on is redirected to that STS, which authenticates the user and generates a SAML token upon successful authentication. Then SharePoint processes this token, and uses it to create its own and authorize the user to access the site.

## Prerequisites

To perform the configuration, you need the following resources:
- A SharePoint 2013 farm or newer.

> - An AD FS farm version 2 or newer, already created, with the public key of the ADFS signing certificate exported in a .cer file

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- An AD FS farm version 2 or newer, already created, with the public key of the AD FS signing certificate exported in a .cer file.
```

$role = New-SPClaimTypeMapping "http://schemas.microsoft.com/ws/2008/06/identity/claims/role" -IncomingClaimTypeDisplayName "Role" -SameAsIncoming

# Public key of the AD FS signing certificate
$signingCert = New-Object System.Security.Cryptography.X509Certificates.X509Certificate2("C:\Data\Claims\ADFS Signing.cer")
# Unique realm (corresponds to the unique identifier of the AD FS Relying Party)
$realm = "urn:contoso:spsites"
# Set the AD FS URL where users are redirected to authenticate
$signinurl = "https://adfs.contoso.local/adfs/ls/"

# Create a new SPTrustedIdentityTokenIssuer in SharePoint
New-SPTrustedIdentityTokenIssuer -Name "Contoso.local" -Description "Contoso.local" -Realm $realm -ImportTrustCertificate $signingCert -ClaimsMappings $email,$role -SignInUrl $signinurl -IdentifierClaim $email.InputClaimType
```

> [!IMPORTANT]
> Do NOT use the option -UseDefaultConfiguration with cmdlet New-SPTrustedIdentityTokenIssuer. This option causes unexpected side effects due to the way it sets the identity of the users internally.

Then, the relevant certificate must be added to the SharePoint root authority certificate store. There are 2 possible options:

> - If the ADFS signing certificate is issued by a certificate authority (best practice for security reasons)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- If the AD FS signing certificate is issued by a certificate authority (best practice for security reasons)
```

        New-SPWebApplication -Name "SharePoint - ADFS on contoso.local" -Port 443 -SecureSocketsLayer -URL $trustedSharePointSiteUrl -ApplicationPool "SharePoint - ADFS on contoso.local" -ApplicationPoolAccount (Get-SPManagedAccount $applicationPoolManagedAccount) -AuthenticationProvider $winAp, $trustedAp
        ```

    1. Open the **SharePoint Central Administration** site.
    1. Under **System Settings**, select **Configure Alternate Access Mappings**. The **Alternate Access Mapping Collection** box opens.
    1. Filter the display with the new web application and confirm that you see something like this:

       ![Alternate Access Mappings of web application](../media/SharePointTrustedAuthN_AAM1ZoneWebapp.png)

- If you extend an existing web application to set AD FS authentication on a new zone:

    1. Start the SharePoint Management Shell and run the following script:

        ```powershell
        # This script extends an existing web application to set AD FS authentication on a new zone
        # URL of the default zone of the web application
        $webAppDefaultZoneUrl = "http://spsites/"

>         # URL of the SharePoint site federated with ADFS

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        # URL of the SharePoint site federated with AD FS
```

Because SharePoint URL uses HTTPS protocol (`https://spsites.contoso.local/`), a certificate must be set on the corresponding Internet Information Services (IIS) site.

### Generate the site certificate

> [!NOTE]
> You may skip this step if you already generated the certificate.

1. Open the Windows PowerShell console.
1. Run the following script to generate a self-signed certificate and add it to the computer's MY store:

   ```powershell
   New-SelfSignedCertificate -DnsName "spsites.contoso.local" -CertStoreLocation "cert:\LocalMachine\My"
   ```

> [!IMPORTANT]
> Self-signed certificates are suitable only for test purposes. In production environments, we strongly recommend that you use certificates issued by a certificate authority instead.

### Set the certificate

1. Open the Internet Information Services Manager console.
1. Expand the server in the tree view, expand **Sites**, select the **SharePoint - ADFS on contoso.local** site, and select **Bindings**.
1. Select **https binding** and then select **Edit**.
1. In the TLS/SSL certificate field, choose **spsites.contoso.local** certificate and then select **OK**.

## Create the site collection

> In this step, you create a team site collection with 2 administrators: One as a Windows administrator and one as a federated (AD FS) administrator.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this step, you create a team site collection with two administrators: One as a Windows administrator and one as a federated (AD FS) administrator.
```
